You awake from a nightmare of screams, fighting and fire. You dreamt that the
village you are staying in was being raided by someone. As you shake your head
to clear your mind, you realize it was no dream. You can see the flicker of fire
peaking through your window and faint smell of smoke. Looking up, you notice 
smoke filling the ceiling of your room. You jump fully awake, grab your COLOR 
cloak and your small coin pouch. You are greeted by a puff of smoke as you pull
open your door. The corridor beyond is filled with smoke, just a couple of feet
of clean air by the floor. Dropping to your hands and knees, you quickly glace
at the other doors, all of which are open. Seems everyone else has gotten out
and not cared to wake you. You are closer to the stairs heading down, but there
is an open window at the far end of the corridor...which way do you go?

Stairs Heading Down 
Crawling quickly to the top of the stairs you slide down one step at a time.
Finally being able to stand up you take in your surrounding of the inn. Tables
and chairs are pushed over, spilled beer and wine covering the floor and fire
spreading from the kitchen out towards the rest of the room. The front door to
the inn slams open and a blood stained young man rushes in. He is holding a
hammer and wearing a leather overall. Recognition flashes across his face and
he blurts out:
"Hey! You are NAME! You came by the smithy yesterday! My names Harper, my dad
is the smith here. The whole town is under attack and being raided. We are
trying to gather everyone at the mages tower. Make your way there!"

As Harper turns around to run out again, you stop him. Do you want to help
Harper search for survivors or tell him you need something to protect yourself
with.

Ask For Item
"Do you have anything I can use to fight with if I get attacked on my way?"

Harper reaches inside his leather overall and produce a small, but sharp
looking knife. He flips it over and hands it to you hilt first.
"Good luck!" he says as he once more turns around and runs off down the street.

You tuck the knife into your belt, take a breath and step outside. Harper is 
no longer in sight, but you are able to make out the mage's tower, which rises
above the roofs and fires consuming the town. You make your way towards the 
tower running as fast as you dare.

Will you run down the center of the street, making faster progress or holding
closer to the burning building, hoping to not draw notice?

Run Down Street

Keep Close To Buildings


Help Harper

Go Out Of Window